README.md, before:

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img src="https://capsule-render.vercel.app/api?type=transparent&height=300&color=gradient&text=fastbinning&section=header&reversal=false&height=120&fontSize=90">
</div>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/RektPunk/fastbinning/releases/latest">
    <img alt="release" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/RektPunk/fastbinning.svg">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/RektPunk/fastbinning/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img alt="License" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/RektPunk/fastbinning.svg">
  </a>
</p>


A high-performance binning library specifically designed for **Credit Risk Modeling** and **Scorecard Development**. 

In financial risk modeling, **Weight of Evidence (WoE)** and **Information Value (IV)** are gold standards for feature engineering. `fastbinning` ensures mathematical rigor with extreme speed.

# Why fastbinning for Credit Scoring?

* **Monotonicity Guaranteed**: In credit scoring, features like 'Utilization Rate' or 'Age' must have a monotonic relationship with default risk to be explainable and compliant.
* **Built for Big Data**: While traditional tools struggle with millions of rows, `fastbinning` handles 10M+ records in milliseconds.
* **Robustness**: Prevents overfitting by enforcing minimum sample constraints (`min_bin_pct`), ensuring each bin is statistically significant.

# Installation
Install using pip:
```bash
pip install fastbinning
```

# Example
Please refer to the [**Examples**](https://github.com/RektPunk/fastbinning/tree/main/examples) provided for further clarification.

Commit message:

[Doc] add benchmark script and result compared with `optbinning` (#2)

README.md, after:

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img src="https://capsule-render.vercel.app/api?type=transparent&height=300&color=gradient&text=fastbinning&section=header&reversal=false&height=120&fontSize=90">
</div>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/RektPunk/fastbinning/releases/latest">
    <img alt="release" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/RektPunk/fastbinning.svg">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/RektPunk/fastbinning/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img alt="License" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/RektPunk/fastbinning.svg">
  </a>
</p>


A high-performance **binning** library specifically designed for Credit Risk Modeling and Scorecard Development.

## Let's be honest: Binning is a pain. 

In Credit Risk Modeling, feature engineering with millions of rows often feels like a bottleneck. You need to ensure Monotonicity, handle Missing Values, and maximize Information Value (IV)—all while your Python script runs for minutes (or even hours). `fastbinning` was born to solve this. It delivers the near optimal mathematical precision of optimal binning at speeds you've never experienced before.

## Why fastbinning?

* Monotonicity Guaranteed: No more manual tweaking. Automatically enforces a monotonic trend in Weight of Evidence (WoE) for numerical features.
* Built for the Impatient: Binning shouldn't be a coffee break. It processes 10M+ records in milliseconds.
* Near-Optimal Accuracy: Achieves near-optimal IV fidelity compared to Mixed-Integer Linear Programming solvers.

## Installation
Install using pip:
```bash
pip install fastbinning
```

## Example
Please refer to the [**Examples**](https://github.com/RektPunk/fastbinning/tree/main/examples) provided for further clarification.

## Benchmark
We sacrifice little of Information Value to achieve nearly two orders of magnitude speed improvement.

| Sample Size | Metric             | fastbinning  | optbinning  | comparison          |
|-------------|--------------------|--------------|-------------|---------------------|
| 10,000,000  | Execution Time     | **0.1671s**  | 13.9333s    | **83.37x** Faster   |
|             | Information Value  | 2.1125       | 2.1491      | **98.30%** Fidelity |
| 1,000,000   | Execution Time     | **0.0155s**  | 1.0257s     | **66.28x** Faster   |
|             | Information Value  | 2.1130       | 2.1582      | **97.91%** Fidelity |

Reproducibility: You can reproduce these results by running the [**script**](https://github.com/RektPunk/fastbinning/tree/main/examples/benchmark.py).
